✨  add options and guidance to provide solutions for other platforms and within multiple architecture support (#2906)
kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder: docs/book/src/reference/platform.md

      {
         "mediaType": "application/vnd.docker.distribution.manifest.v2+json",
         "size": 739,
         "digest": "sha256:d801c41875f12ffd8211fffef2b3a3d1a301d99f149488d31f245676fa8bc5d9",
         "platform": {
            "architecture": "amd64",
            "os": "linux"
         }
      },
      {
         "mediaType": "application/vnd.docker.distribution.manifest.v2+json",
         "size": 739,
         "digest": "sha256:f4423c8667edb5372fb0eafb6ec599bae8212e75b87f67da3286f0291b4c8732",
         "platform": {
            "architecture": "s390x",
            "os": "linux"
         }
      },
      {
         "mediaType": "application/vnd.docker.distribution.manifest.v2+json",
         "size": 739,
         "digest": "sha256:621288f6573c012d7cf6642f6d9ab20dbaa35de3be6ac2c7a718257ec3aff333",
         "platform": {
            "architecture": "ppc64le",
            "os": "linux"
         }
      },
   ]
}
```

### 2) (Recommended as a Good Practice) Ensure that node affinity expressions are configured accordingly

Kubernetes provides a mechanism called [nodeAffinity][node-affinity] which can be used to limit the possible node targets where a pod 
can be scheduled. 

> **Kubernetes manifest example**

Author: I think we have linked the k8s doc for further details.

Also, we have the example so as to know how that works and this PR introduces this to the default scaffolds which let the users know exactly what/where they need to do. 

So, IMHO I think we do not need to be more verbose here. WDYT?

> **Kubernetes manifest example**

Reviewer: Oh that's true - it would be in the k8s docs. Sounds good!

# Platforms Supported

Kubebuilder produces solutions that by default can work on multiple platforms or specific ones, depending on how you 
build and configure your workloads. This guide aims to help you properly configure your projects according to your needs.

## Overview

> To provide support on specific or multiple platforms, you must ensure that all images used in workloads are built to 
> support the desired platforms. Note that may not be the same as the platform where you develop your solutions 
> and use KubeBuilder, but instead the platform(s) where your solution should run and be distributed. 
> It is recommended to build solutions that work on multiple platforms so that your project works
> on any Kubernetes cluster regardless of the underlying operating system and architecture.

Reviewer 2: Nit:
```suggestion
To provide support on specific or multiple platforms, you must ensure that all images used in workloads are built to 
support the desired platforms. Note that this may not be the same as the platform where you develop your solutions using KubeBuilder, but instead the platform(s) where your solution would run and will be distributed. 
It is recommended to build solutions that work on multiple platforms so that your project works
on any Kubernetes cluster regardless of the underlying operating system and architecture.
```

> # Platform Supported

Reviewer 3: Nit:
```suggestion
# Platforms Supported
```

Kubebuilder produces solutions that by default can work on multiple platforms or specific ones, depending on how you 
build and configure your workloads. This guide aims to help you properly configure your projects according to your needs.

## Overview

To provide support on specific or multiple platforms, you must ensure that all images used in workloads are built to 
support the desired platforms. Note that may not be the same as the platform where you develop your solutions 
and use KubeBuilder, but instead the platform(s) where your solution should run and be distributed. 

> A good recommendation would be to build solutions that work on multiple platforms so that your project could still 
> work no matter the operating system and architecture of the Kubernetes cluster where it is installed .

Reviewer 3: Nit:
```suggestion
It is recommended to build solutions that work on multiple platforms so that your project works
on any Kubernetes cluster regardless of the underlying operating system and architecture.
```

## How to define which platforms are supported

The following covers what you need to do to provide the support for one or more platforms or architectures.

### 1) Build workload images to provide the support for other platform(s)

The images used in workloads such as in your Pods/Deployments will need to provide the support for this other platform. 

> You can inspect the images using aManifestList of supported platforms using the command 

Reviewer 3: Nit:
```suggestion
You can inspect the images using a ManifestList of supported platforms using the command 
```

            "architecture": "s390x",
            "os": "linux"
         }
      },
      {
         "mediaType": "application/vnd.docker.distribution.manifest.v2+json",
         "size": 739,
         "digest": "sha256:621288f6573c012d7cf6642f6d9ab20dbaa35de3be6ac2c7a718257ec3aff333",
         "platform": {
            "architecture": "ppc64le",
            "os": "linux"
         }
      },
   ]
}
```

### 2) (Recommended as a Best Practice) Ensure that node affinity expressions are set to match the supported platforms

Kubernetes provides a mechanism called [nodeAffinity][node-affinity] which can be used to limit the possible node 
targets where a pod can be scheduled. This is especially important to ensure correct scheduling behavior in clusters 
with nodes that span across multiple platforms (i.e. heterogeneous clusters).

**Kubernetes manifest example**

```yaml
affinity:
  nodeAffinity:
    requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
      nodeSelectorTerms:
      - matchExpressions:
        - key: kubernetes.io/arch
          operator: In
          values:
          - amd64
          - arm64
          - ppc64le
          - s390x
      - matchExpressions:

>           - key: kubernetes.io/os

Reviewer 4: Shall we move this `kubernetes.io/os` stanza as a part of the `matchExpressions` above? That way it's for specifying the `kubernetes.io/arch` && `kubernetes.io/os` as linux rather than ||?

Author: done

                        {
                            MatchExpressions: []corev1.NodeSelectorRequirement{
                                {
                                    Key:      "kubernetes.io/arch",
                                    Operator: "In",
                                    Values:   []string{"amd64"},
                                },
                                {
                                    Key:      "kubernetes.io/os",
                                    Operator: "In",
                                    Values:   []string{"linux"},
                                },
                            },
                        },
                    },
                },
            },
        },
        SecurityContext: &corev1.PodSecurityContext{
            ...
        },
        Containers: []corev1.Container{{
            ...
        }},
    },
```

<aside class="note">
<h1> Example(s) </h1>

You can look for some code examples by checking the code which is generated via the Deploy 
Image plugin. ([More info](../plugins/deploy-image-plugin-v1-alpha.md))

</aside>

## Producing projects that support multiple platforms

> You can use `docker buildx` to cross-compile via emulation ([QEMU](https://www.qemu.org/)) to build the manager image.

Reviewer 3: It might be nice to include a link to the official Docker Buildx documentation:
```suggestion
You can use [`docker buildx`][buildx] to cross-compile via emulation ([QEMU](https://www.qemu.org/)) to build the manager image.
```

      #           - key: kubernetes.io/arch
      #             operator: In
      #             values:
      #               - amd64
      #               - arm64
      #               - ppc64le
      #               - s390x
      #         - matchExpressions:
      #           - key: kubernetes.io/os
      #             operator: In
      #             values:
      #               - linux
```

<aside class="note">
<h1>Building images for releases</h1>

You will probably want to automate the releases of your projects to ensure that the images are always built for the 
same platforms. Note that Goreleaser also supports [docker buildx][buildx]. See its [documentation][goreleaser-buildx] for more detail.

Also, you may want to configure GitHub Actions, Prow jobs, or any other solution that you use to build images to 
provide multi-platform support. Note that you can also use other options like `docker manifest create` to customize 
your solutions to achieve the same goals with other tools.

By using Docker and the target provided by default you should NOT change the Dockerfile to use
any specific GOOS and GOARCH to build the manager binary. However, if you are looking for to

> customize the default scaffold and create your onw implementations you might want to give

Reviewer 3: minor typo:
```suggestion
customize the default scaffold and create your own implementations you might want to give
```

a look in the Golang [doc](https://go.dev/doc/install/source#environment) to knows 
its available options.

</aside>

## Which (workload) images are created by default?

Projects created with the Kubebuilder CLI have two workloads which are:

### Manager

The container to run the manager implementation is configured in the `config/manager/manager.yaml` file. 
This image is built with the Dockerfile file scaffolded by default and contains the binary of the project \
which will be built via the command `go build -a -o manager main.go`.

Note that when you run `make docker-build` OR `make docker-build IMG=myregistry/myprojectname:<tag>` 
an image will be built from the client host (local environment) and produce an image for 
the client os/arch, which is commonly linux/amd64 or linux/arm64.

<aside class="note">
<h1>Mac Os</h1>

> If you are running from an Mac Os environment then, Docker also will consider it as linux/$arc. Be aware that

Reviewer 3: Nit:
```suggestion
If you are running from an Mac Os environment then, Docker also will consider it as linux/$arch. Be aware that
```
